SOURCE: https://arctic.noaa.gov/report-card/report-card-2024/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-25T11:25:02.578Z
SHA256(raw): d5df09a16e9139ca37f228b34ab0e7fc09b073997216feb9d4cf4eff7787869f

Report Card 2024 - NOAA Arctic 
 An official website of the United States government
 Here’s how you know
 Here’s how you know 
 Official websites use .gov 
A
 .gov website belongs to an official government
 organization in the United States.
 Secure .gov websites use HTTPS 
A
 lock (
 Lock 
 Locked padlock icon 
 ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to
 the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
 secure websites.
 Skip to content 
 Search... 
 Home 
 Report Card 
 Strategy 
 Services 
 Partner With Us 
 Data 
 Programs 
 Oceans and Coasts 
 Weather 
 Satellites 
 Research 
 Fisheries 
 Search... 
 Home 
 Report Card 
 Oceans and Coasts 
 Weather 
 Satellites 
 Research 
 Fisheries 
 Arctic Report Card: Update for 2024
 The rapid pace and complexity of Arctic change demand new and strengthened Arctic adaptation and global reductions of fossil fuel pollution
 Archive of previous Arctic Report Cards 
 Arctic Report Card 2024
 Home 
 2024 Headlines 
 Executive Summary 
 Videos and Animations 
 Contact 
 Vital Signs
 Surface Air Temperature 
 Precipitation 
 Terrestrial Snow Cover 
 Greenland Ice Sheet 
 Sea Ice 
 Sea Surface Temperature 
 Arctic Ocean Primary Productivity: The Response of Marine Algae to Climate Warming and Sea Ice Decline 
 Tundra Greenness 
 Other Indicators
 Migratory Tundra Caribou in a Warmer Climate 
 Arctic Terrestrial Carbon Cycling 
 Ice Seals of Alaska 
 Frostbites
 The Original Researchers: Hunters are Scientists Deserving Sustained Support 
 More Information
 About Arctic Report Card 2024 
 Report Card Full PDF 
 Arctic Report Card Data Portal 
 Authors and Affiliations 
 References 
 Graphics from Climate.gov 
 NOAA Press Release 
 ARC 2024 Constituent Briefing 
 AGU Report Card Press Conference 
 2024 Headlines and Overview
 The rapid pace and complexity of Arctic change demand new and strengthened Arctic adaptation and global reductions of fossil fuel pollution .
 The Arctic continues to warm at a faster rate than the global average. The 2024 Arctic Report Card highlights record-breaking and near-record-breaking observations that demonstrate dramatic change, including Arctic tundra transformation from carbon sink to carbon source, declines of previously large inland caribou herds, and increasing winter precipitation. Observations also reveal regional differences that make local and regional experiences of environmental change highly variable for people, plants and animals. Adaptation is increasingly necessary and Indigenous Knowledge and community-led research programs are essential to understand and respond to rapid Arctic changes.
 Headlines
 In the air 
 Arctic annual surface air temperatures ranked second warmest since 1900.
 Autumn 2023 and summer 2024 were especially warm across the Arctic with temperatures ranking 2nd and 3rd warmest, respectively.
 An early August 2024 heatwave set all-time record daily temperatures in several northern Alaska and Canada communities.
 The last nine years are the nine warmest on record in the Arctic.
 Summer 2024 across the Arctic was the wettest on record.
 Arctic precipitation has shown an increasing trend from 1950 through 2024, with the most pronounced increases occurring in winter.
 In the ocean 
 In September 2024, the extent of sea ice, which has a profound influence on the Arctic environment, was the sixth-lowest in the 45-year satellite record.
 All 18 of the lowest September minimum ice extents have occurred in the last 18 years.
 Arctic Ocean regions that are ice-free in August have been warming at a rate of 0.5°F (0.3°C) per decade since 1982.
 In most of the shallow seas that ring the Arctic Ocean, August mean sea surface temperatures were 3.6-7.2°F (2-4°C) warmer than 1991-2020 averages, though the Chukchi Sea was 1.8-7.2°F (1-4°C) cooler than average.
 Long-term ocean primary productivity—plankton blooms—continue to increase in all Arctic regions, except for the Pacific Arctic, throughout the observational record of 2003-24. However, in 2024, lower-than-average values were dominant across much of the Arctic.
 Ice seal populations remain healthy in the Pacific Arctic, though the ringed seal diet is shifting from Arctic cod to saffron cod with warming waters.
 On land 
 When including the impact of increased wildfire activity, the Arctic tundra region has shifted from storing carbon in the soil to becoming a carbon dioxide source. Circumpolar wildfire emissions have averaged 207 million tons of carbon per year since 2003.
 The Arctic remains a consistent methane source.
 Alaskan permafrost temperatures were the second warmest on record.
 Warmer temperatures impact caribou movements and survival through direct summer heat and changes in winter snow and ice conditions, with regional variations in population declines and recoveries.
 Arctic migratory tundra caribou populations have declined by 65% over the last 2-3 decades. While the generally smaller coastal herds of the western Arctic have seen some recovery over roughly the last decade, previously large inland herds are continuing a long-term decline or remain at the lowest populations noted by Indigenous elders.
 Summer heat impacts on caribou herds are projected to increase over the next 25-75 years, requiring shared knowledge between scientists and northern communities for management strategies.
 Snow accumulation during the 2023/24 winter was above average across both the Eurasian and North American Arctic.
 Despite above-average snow accumulation, the snow season was the shortest in 26 years over portions of central and eastern Arctic Canada. Arctic snow melt is occurring 1-2 weeks earlier than historical conditions throughout May and June.
 Greenland Ice Sheet mass loss lowest since 2013.
 Tundra greenness, a measure of expanding tundra vegetation cover and biomass due to warming temperatures, ranked second highest in the 25-year satellite record.
 Indigenous Knowledge and partnerships 
 Indigenous hunters are the original researchers of their homelands, with observation and monitoring skills integral to traditional practices.
 The Ittaq Heritage and Research Centre in Kangiqtugaapik (Clyde River), Nunavut, Canada operates the Angunasuktiit program, teaching traditional hunting and harvesting to new generations.
 Supporting Indigenous leadership in Arctic research requires sustained support of Indigenous ways of life and knowledge generation.
 HEADQUARTERS 
 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910
 Email Us 
 ABOUT US 
NOAA's diverse activities in the Arctic synergize the work of five NOAA line offices, each leading sustained efforts to provide science, service, and stewardship in the Arctic region that supports people and commerce.
 Visit NOAA | Visit the Department of Commerce 
 NOAA Central Library 
 Freedom of Information Act 
 Web Accessibility Statement 
 Disclaimer for External Links 
 NOAA Privacy Statement 
 Provide Feedback
 Provide Feedback 
 Scroll to Top 
 Contact Our Team
 Fill out the form below, and we will be in touch shortly. 
 Contact Information 
 Name 
 phone 
 email 
 Vehicle Information 
 Vehicle Make 
 Vehicle model 
 Vehicle year 
 Service Requested 
 Preferred Date and Time Selection 
 date 
 time 
 submit ⟶